temperature-sensor-w-lcd
========================

<h2 style="text-aling:center;">Temperature sensor with LCD Display</h2>
<h3 style="text-aling:center;">by Alfredo Stefano</h3>

<p>This Project is written for Atmel MCU ATMega8535.</p>
<p>The MCU read temperature coming from a LM35 sensor. It outputs a voltage with a slope of 10 mV/째C. </p>

<p>The MCU provides an internal SAR ADC with 10-bit resolution. The Analog Reference was set by software to 2.56 V. This voltage is auto-generated by MCU so it won't need any external reference. By this settings the ADC result will correspond to 0x004 (10-bit) for each celsius grade. The MCU allows to Left Adjust the ADC result, so you can get the 8 MSB of the 10 bit conversion. Notice that with 10-bit resolution and 2.56 V as Analog Reference you can use the 8 MSB of the result without making strange calculations, in fact each ADC unit (of the 8 MSB) corresponds to 1째C. Very good! (just make some calculations to demonstrate it).
However by taking the 8 MSB  you have a resolution of 1째C. So, if you need more resolution, just consider also the 2 LSB. 2 bits correspond to 4 cases, so by considering the 2 LSB you can have a resolution of 1/4 째C. Not bad!
Finally, after a conversion of the ADC result to ASCII character, the temperature is displayed into the LCD with a refreshing rate of 1 Hz.</p>

<p>In future I'll implement a clock by getting the time from the DS1307 RTC. It needs of TWI (or I2C) communication to be read/written.

<p><ul>
<li>The MCU used is ATmega8535 (datasheet link: http://www.atmel.com/images/doc2502.pdf)</li>

<li>The LCD Display controller is KS0070B (the logic is compatibile with Hitachi HD44780 controller)</li>

<li>The Temperature Sensor used is LM35DZ (datasheet link: http://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/lm35.pdf)</li></ul></p>

